[docs] v5 stable docs (#3100)
vercel/workflow: docs/content/worlds/v5/building-a-world.mdx

`getChunks` returns a paginated snapshot of currently available chunks (unlike `get` which returns a live `ReadableStream` that waits for new chunks). `getInfo` returns the tail index (last chunk index, 0-based, or `-1` when empty) and whether the stream is complete — useful for resolving negative `startIndex` values into absolute positions.

## Analytics Interface (Optional)

> The optional `analytics` namespace serves observability surfaces — dashboards, `workflow inspect`, the local web UI — with **metadata-only** listings that can scan large numbers of runs without touching payload data. Tooling feature-detects it: when `world.analytics` is present it is preferred for listings and attribute search, and when it is absent, tooling falls back to the Storage APIs. Of the first-party Worlds, only the [Vercel World](/worlds/vercel) implements it (backed by the observability data pipeline); the Local and Postgres Worlds leave it `undefined`.

Reviewer: Separate the portable purpose and feature-detection behavior from the first-party implementation note, without tying the interface to Vercel's observability pipeline.

```suggestion
The optional `analytics` namespace provides **metadata-only** access to runs and their related records. It is intended for observability and discovery surfaces such as dashboards, `workflow inspect`, and the local web UI. Implementations can optimize these queries independently of payload storage.

Tooling feature-detects this namespace. When `world.analytics` is available, tooling prefers it for listings and attribute search; otherwise, it uses the Storage APIs. Among the first-party Worlds, only the [Vercel World](/worlds/vercel) currently implements it. The Local and Postgres Worlds leave it `undefined`.
```

Reviewer 2: Applied in 9abe27504 — the intro now leads with the portable purpose (metadata-only access, implementations free to optimize independently of payload storage) and puts feature detection in its own paragraph, with the pipeline-backing note dropped from the interface docs. That Vercel-specific behavior now lives in the Vercel World page's Observability section instead.

  };
  waits: {
    get(runId: string, waitId: string): Promise<AnalyticsWait>;
    list(params: AnalyticsListWaitsParams): Promise<PaginatedResponse<AnalyticsWait>>;
  };
}
```

If you implement it, honor the contract that makes the namespace safe to expose broadly:

- **Metadata only.** Rows must never include run inputs/outputs, step data, or hook tokens — the `Analytics*` row schemas in `@workflow/world` define exactly which fields are allowed. There is no `resolveData` escape hatch here; payload access stays on the Storage APIs.
- **Attribute filtering is latest-write-wins.** `runs.list({ attributes })` matches a run's most recent value for each key (up to 8 pairs), and reserved `$`-prefixed keys are valid in filters even though user writes to them are rejected.
- **Time windows are the query contract.** `startTime`/`endTime` must be provided together; a bounded window lets the backend prune its scan. Responses may carry an optional `pageInfo` describing the scannable window (lookback days, window starts, upgrade availability) — return it if your backend has retention limits so tools can size date pickers.

> - **Eventual consistency is acceptable.** Analytics data may trail live state by a few seconds; tools treat it as a listing surface, not a source of truth.

Reviewer: These are useful interface guarantees, but they can be phrased without prescribing Vercel/ClickHouse query behavior. This also makes the paired-boundary rule explicit when both values are omitted.

```suggestion
If you implement this namespace, observe the following requirements:

- **Metadata only.** Analytics responses must not include run inputs or outputs, step data, hook tokens, or other payload data. The `Analytics*` schemas exported by `@workflow/world` define the complete set of permitted fields. Payload retrieval remains exclusively available through the Storage APIs.
- **Attribute filters use the latest value.** `runs.list({ attributes })` evaluates each filter against the run's most recently written value for that key. A request may contain up to eight key-value pairs. Reserved `$`-prefixed attributes are valid filters, although users cannot write them directly.
- **Time boundaries must be paired.** `startTime` and `endTime` may either both be omitted or both be supplied. Responses may include `pageInfo` describing retention and the available query window. Implementations with retention limits should return this information so tooling can present valid date ranges.
- **Results may be eventually consistent.** Analytics records may lag live workflow state. Consumers use this namespace for discovery and listing; Storage remains the authoritative interface for current workflow state and payload access.
```

Reviewer 2: Applied in 9abe27504, verbatim — including the explicit both-omitted-or-both-supplied phrasing, which matches the `AnalyticsListRunsParams` doc comments in `@workflow/world`. The Vercel/ClickHouse specifics that were dropped here (bounded-window scan speed, plan lookback surfacing as `observability-upgrade-required` + `pageInfo`) moved to the Vercel World page's Observability section so they're still documented, just in the right place.
